Define translation agent skill guidelines for Hebrew (he) locale (#65122)
apache/airflow: .github/skills/airflow-translations/locales/he.md

<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
     https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 -->

# Hebrew (he) Translation Agent Skill

**Locale code:** `he`
**Preferred variant:** Modern Hebrew (he), consistent with existing translations in `airflow-core/src/airflow/ui/public/i18n/locales/he/`

This file contains locale-specific guidelines so AI translation agents produce

> new Hebrew strings that stay 100% consistent with the existing translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new Hebrew strings that stay fully consistent with the existing translations.
```

Author: Done in 527cd36.

## 1. Core Airflow Terminology

### Global Airflow terms (never translate)

These terms are defined as untranslatable across **all** Airflow locales.
Do not translate them regardless of language:

- `Airflow` — Product name
- `Dag` / `Dags` — Airflow concept; never write "DAG"
- `XCom` / `XComs` — Airflow cross-communication mechanism
- `PID` — Unix process identifier (translated as מזהה תהליך in context labels)

> - `ID` — Universal abbreviation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I'd remove both, as ID is usually translated as מזהה (even in PID, מזהה תהליך)

Author: Done in 527cd36.

- `UTC` — Time standard
- `JSON` — Standard technical format name
- `REST API` — Standard technical term
- `Unix` — Operating system name
- Log levels: `CRITICAL`, `ERROR`, `WARNING`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`

### Translated by convention (Hebrew-specific)

The existing Hebrew translations translate most Airflow terms into native Hebrew.
These established translations **must be used consistently**:

- `Asset` / `Assets` → `נכס` / `נכסים`
- `Backfill` → `השלמה למפרע` / `השלמות למפרע`
- `Plugin` / `Plugins` → `תוסף` / `תוספים`
- `Pool` / `Pools` → `מאגר משאבים`
- `Provider` / `Providers` → `חבילות עזר`
- `Trigger` / `Triggerer` → `מפעיל` (component noun)
- `Executor` → `מבצע`
- `Heartbeat` → `עדכון חיים` (e.g., "עדכון חיים אחרון" for "Latest Heartbeat")

## 2. Standard Translations

> | English Term          | Hebrew Translation            | Notes                                          |

Reviewer 2: I'd remove all the notes regarding pluralization

Author: Done in 527cd36.

| Dag Run               | הרצת Dag                      | Plural: הרצת Dags                              |
| Trigger (verb)        | הפעלה                         | "מופעל על-ידי" for "Triggered by"              |
| Trigger Rule          | כלל הפעלה                     |                                                |
| Scheduler             | מתזמן                         |                                                |
| Schedule (noun)       | תזמון                         |                                                |
| Operator              | אופרטור                       |                                                |
| Connection            | חיבור                         | Plural: חיבורים                                |
| Variable              | משתנה                         | Plural: משתנים                                 |
| Configuration         | הגדרות                        |                                                |
| Audit Log             | יומן ביקורת                   |                                                |
| State                 | מצב                           |                                                |

> | Queue (noun)          | תור                           | "בתור" for "queued"                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Queue (noun)          | בתור                           | "תור" for "queued"                            |
```

Author: Done in 527cd36.

| deferred            | בהשהייה                       |
| removed             | הוסרו                         |
| restarting          | בהפעלה מחדש                   |
| up_for_retry        | בהמתנה לניסיון חוזר           |
| up_for_reschedule   | בהמתנה לתזמון מחדש            |
| upstream_failed     | משימות קודמות נכשלו           |
| no_status / none    | ללא סטטוס                     |
| planned             | בתכנון                        |

## 4. Hebrew-Specific Guidelines

### Tone and Register

- Use a **neutral, professional Hebrew** tone suitable for technical software UIs.
- The existing translations use masculine forms for imperatives and general references. Follow this established convention for consistency.
- Keep UI strings concise — they appear in buttons, labels, and tooltips.

### Right-to-Left (RTL) Considerations

- Hebrew is an RTL language. UI layout should flip accordingly.
- When mixing Hebrew and English (e.g., "הרצת Dag"), the LTR English term will naturally appear in the correct reading order within an RTL context.
- Preserve all i18next placeholders exactly as-is: `{{count}}`, `{{dagName}}`, etc.

### Plural Forms

> - Hebrew uses i18next plural suffixes `_one` and `_other`:

Reviewer 2: And also `_two`, apparently (check existing translations). For the most part it will be exactly the same as the `_other`.

FYI - in colloquial Hebrew there is an actual `_two` form for things that come in pairs, for example - one sock (גרב) / two socks (גרביים, not "2 גרבים"). I don't see it happening here too often, but you could give it as a note.

Author: Done in 527cd36.

  ```json
  "task_one": "משימה",
  "task_other": "משימות"
  ```

  ```json
  "dagRun_one": "הרצת Dag",
  "dagRun_other": "הרצת Dags"
  ```

### Construct State (סמיכות)

- Hebrew uses construct state for compound nouns:
  - "מופע משימה" (instance of task) — not "מופע של משימה"
  - "קבוצת משימות" (group of tasks)
  - "מאגר משאבים" (pool of resources)

>   - "אזור זמן" (time zone)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
It's true, but unnecessary IMO (LLMs already figure it out)

Author: Done in 527cd36.

### Capitalization

> - Hebrew has no uppercase/lowercase distinction. For English terms embedded in Hebrew strings, preserve their original casing (e.g., "Dag", "XCom", "Dags").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Capitalization of English terms

- For English terms embedded in Hebrew strings, preserve their original casing (e.g., "Dag", "XCom", "Dags").
```

Author: Done in 527cd36.

## 5. Examples from Existing Translations

**Terms translated to Hebrew:**

```
Asset          → "נכס"
Backfill       → "השלמה למפרע"
Pool           → "מאגר משאבים"
Plugin         → "תוסף"
Provider       → "חבילות עזר"
Executor       → "מבצע"
Trigger        → "מפעיל"
Heartbeat      → "עדכון חיים"
```

**Common translation patterns:**

```
task_one              → "משימה"
task_other            → "משימות"
dagRun_one            → "הרצת Dag"
dagRun_other          → "הרצת Dags"
backfill_one          → "השלמה למפרע"
backfill_other        → "השלמות למפרע"
taskInstance_one      → "מופע משימה"
taskInstance_other    → "מופעי משימות"
running               → "בריצה"
failed                → "נכשלו"
success               → "הצליחו"
queued                → "בתור"
scheduled             → "בתזמון"
```

**Action verbs (buttons):**

```
Add      → "הוסף"
Delete   → "מחק"
Save     → "שמור"
Reset    → "אתחל"
Cancel   → "ביטול"
Confirm  → "אישור"

> Download → "הורדה"

Reviewer: Should we not make these consistent with the rest as ציווי? @shahar1 @eladkal

Author: Good catch , happy to update it to the imperative form once @shahar1 or @eladkal confirms.

Reviewer 2: Indeed good catch, feel free to update to "הורד" where applicable

Reviewer: @shahar1 my comment applied to all 3 lines. You think only "download" should be changed?

Reviewer 2: Missed those, applicable for all :)

Author: Done in 527cd36 — applied all suggestions: removed PID/ID, stripped Plural notes from the table, swapped Queue noun/tense, added _two plus Hebrew dual-form note, dropped the Construct State section, renamed Capitalization → "Capitalization of English terms", and switched the three button labels (Cancel/Confirm/Download) to imperative (בטל / אשר / הורד).
